Q 1. Debugging nginx issues
  Make sure your NGINX is configured with the --with-debug configuration option. ...
  Open NGINX configuration file: ...
  Find the error_log directive which is by default located in the main context, and change the logging level to debug . ...
  Save the configuration and exit the configuration file.
  
Q 2. Preventing ddos
  -- Load Balancer, WAF, CDN, ACL, firewalls, 
 
Q 3. What does load balancer do in AWS when an instance stops
  -- Checks hearthbeat and removes down nodes
  
Q 4. What is the typical life cycle of an object in JVM heap? How would you combine a CI/CD process with Chef config management system? How would you improve it if you need to push releases after every commit to repository?

 
Q 6. creating and consuming RESTful APIs

Q 7: You have a Jenkins process that is running but the Jenkins User Interface is not up. Troubleshoot why? (dump)
: Jenkins UI port is not open to be accessed from outside | curl is not working firewall | analyse tcpdump

Q 8: You have to clone Git file which is huge in size and in USA, and you have to clone it in India. But the clone is getting timed out? Troubleshoot
: git logs, git partial clone, git shallow clone...make use of CDN

Q 9: How would you monitor 1000 servers and generate reports based on the specified metrics?
: Monitoring Grafana GUI - Prometheus agent deploy on new server, bootstrap expose metrics -- then configure dashboard - CPU,mem,n/w,ports

Q 10: You are growing your enviroment and you need to migrate a baremetal based application on kubesystem. The application is running on Ubuntu12 and using old Python version. How would you plan the migration?
: POD= application has dependency based on container dockerfile-image will be same as app and code location (From, command to run and how will my application start) | Container layers(readable/writable) data through persistence storage (NAS/expose to kubernetes cluster)

 
The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master by Andrew Hunt and David Thomas
Time Management for System Administrators by Thomas Limoncelli
Continuous Integration: Improving Software Quality and Reducing Risk by Paul Duvall
The Phoenix Project: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win by Gene Kim
(well known in the DevOps field), Kevin Behr, and George Spafford
Rework by Jason Fried
7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen R. Covey
